---
layout: default
title: 4.0 Self Assessing Cybersecurity Risk with the Framework 
nav_order: 140
---

### 4.0 Self-Assessing Cybersecurity Risk with the Framework
{: .no_toc }

1. TOC
{:toc}


The Cybersecurity Framework is designed to reduce risk by improving the management of cybersecurity risk to organizational objectives. Ideally, organizations using the Framework will be able to measure and assign values to their risk along with the cost and benefits of steps taken to reduce risk to acceptable levels. The better an organization is able to measure its risk, costs, and benefits of cybersecurity strategies and steps, the more rational, effective, and valuable its cybersecurity approach and investments will be.

Over time, self-assessment and measurement should improve decision making about investment priorities. For example, measuring – or at least robustly characterizing – aspects of an organization’s cybersecurity state and trends over time can enable that organization to understand and convey meaningful risk information to dependents, suppliers, buyers, and other parties. An organization can accomplish this internally or by seeking a third-party assessment. If done properly and with an appreciation of limitations, these measurements can provide a basis for strong trusted relationships, both inside and outside of an organization.

To examine the effectiveness of investments, an organization must first have a clear understanding of its organizational objectives, the relationship between those objectives and supportive cybersecurity outcomes, and how those discrete cybersecurity outcomes are implemented and managed. While measurements of all those items is beyond the scope of the Framework, the cybersecurity outcomes of the Framework Core support self-assessment of investment effectiveness and cybersecurity activities in the following ways:

* Making choices about how different portions of the cybersecurity operation should influence the selection of Target Implementation Tiers,

* Evaluating the organization’s approach to cybersecurity risk management by determining Current Implementation Tiers,

* Prioritizing cybersecurity outcomes by developing Target Profiles, 
* Determining the degree to which specific cybersecurity steps achieve desired cybersecurity outcomes by assessing Current Profiles, and

* Measuring the degree of implementation for controls catalogs or technical guidance listed as Informative References.

The development of cybersecurity performance metrics is evolving. Organizations should be thoughtful, creative, and careful about the ways in which they employ measurements to optimize use, while avoiding reliance on artificial indicators of current state and progress in improving cybersecurity risk management. Judging cyber risk requires discipline and should be revisited periodically. Any time measurements are employed as part of the Framework process, organizations are encouraged to clearly identify and know why these measurements are important and how they will contribute to the overall management of cybersecurity risk. They also should be clear about the limitations of measurements that are used.

For example, tracking security measures and business outcomes may provide meaningful insight
as to how changes in granular security controls affect the completion of organizational objectives. Verifying achievement of some organizational objectives requires analyzing the data only after that objective was to have been achieved. This type of lagging measure is more absolute. However, it is often more valuable to predict whether a cybersecurity risk may occur, and the impact it might have, using a leading measure.

Organizations are encouraged to innovate and customize how they incorporate measurements into their application of the Framework with a full appreciation of their usefulness and limitations.

